During the last decade, the ToF range imaging cameras have significantly
improved and have been used in various applications from agricultural sectors
to engineering industries. With the improvement of the technology to build
the depth sensor, novel applications of ToF range imaging will increase. At
present, more researchers are mainly focused on the noise investigation in
these cameras. However, from this thesis, we found that the jitter significantly
influences range measurements therefore it is worth further investigating jitter
in ToF range imaging systems. Several investigations could be extended to
further perform the ToF range imaging systems due to the jitter influence on
measurements as follows.

The proposed methodology in Chapters 4 and 5 could be extended to correct
range measurements after extracting and measuring the RJ and PJ in the
light signal of the camera. This will be very useful since the available jitter can
be compensated before the measurement. Since for a particular configuration
of the AMCW camera (e.g., with default modulation frequency and integration 
period), the periodic and random jitter in the illumination source is fixed
amounts which can be computed with the proposed methodology. Then, considering
the benchmark numerical results in Chapters 7 and 8 for the influence
of the periodic and random jitter on range measurements, respectively, can
be applied for compensating of the measurement. In addition, the proposed
algorithm may be applied to extract the jitter in other types of ToF range
imaging cameras such as pulse based and pseudo-noise based modulation cameras.
This methodology can be used for jitter measurement in any kind of
application where the reference clock signal cannot be accessed.

A cheaper SDR USB dongle with the proposed algorithm for jitter extraction
in ToF cameras at lower frequencies in the RF signal was investigated in
Chapter 6. The high sample rates and high quality of SDRs can be used to
explore the relatively large range of frequencies of the PJ and RJ in the light
source of the AMCW ToF cameras by setting a suitable local oscillator frequency
to get a large intermediate frequency (less than the Nyquist frequency)
in the dongle. Also, this concept may be used to find the jitter in the light
source of the aforementioned two modulation types of ToF range imaging cameras
as well as in any other relevant applications. In addition, it may possible
to modify the DSP engine in the dongle which is a software based controller in
order to get maximum benefit but this may not be a straightforward process.

In Chapter 7, the influence of the periodic jitter on range measurements
was investigated. Can we compensate the PJ amount in the first phase step
(by determining and correcting it) before it proceeds to the second phase step
and so on, in the correlation function within the integration period? With
the influence of the PJ in each phase step a constant (a fixed amount), then
it can be further analysed with the crosstalking between phase steps, during
the integration period. But if it is not a constant (i.e., random behaviour),
then it will be difficult to compensate for the influence of the PJ on range 
measurements. Thus, this is a more challenging task for future investigation
that arises from Chapter 7. On the other hand, here the periodic jitter at a
single frequency was considered. But in practice, the ToF cameras may have
periodic jitter at multiple frequencies. Then, it is very interesting to know how
the analytical model will change accordingly. Will the influence be linear or
non-linear and will it be partially or fully cancel on range measurements? So,
some interesting questions arise from this future investigation.

A finite number of evaluations of the Monte Carlo simulation were used to
investigate the influence of random jitter on range measurements in Chapter 8. 
With increasing the number of simulations, it is surprisingly effective to estimate
the better result than the current one. In order to understand the
impact of uncertainty of the results obtained, it is necessary to analyse the
stochastic model for the full range of possible outcomes, to get much more
accurate results. On the other hand, all simulations were done at fixed integration
period T = 1 ms and it is interesting to investigate the behaviour of the
random jitter for various T, especially for less than 1 ms integration period
since now the depth sensor manufacturers are trying to develop the AMCW
ToF cameras with short integration periods. 